<pre>
  NEP: <to be assigned>
  Title: DApp Standard
  Author: Erik Zhang <erik@neo.org>
  Type: Standard
  Status: Draft
  Created: 2018-05-24
  Requires: 10
</pre>

==Abstract==

This NEP presents a set of methods that make DApps more accessible to the wallets and clients, and gives the users a more intuitive understanding of DApps.

==Motivation==

==Specification==

===Methods===

====name====

<pre>
public static string name()
</pre>

Returns the name of the DApp. e.g. <code>"MyDApp"</code>.

This method MUST always return the same value every time it is invoked.

====version====

<pre>
public static string version()
</pre>

''OPTIONAL'': It is recommend that this method is implemented for enhanced usability with wallets and clients, but interfaces and other contracts MUST NOT depend on the existence of this method.

Returns the version of the DApp. e.g. <code>"1.0"</code>, <code>"1.0.1-beta"</code>.

This method MUST always return the same value every time it is invoked.

====author====

<pre>
public static string author()
</pre>

''OPTIONAL'': It is recommend that this method is implemented for enhanced usability with wallets and clients, but interfaces and other contracts MUST NOT depend on the existence of this method.

Returns the names, and optionally the email addresses of all the authors/owners of the DApp. The format of the author must be <code>Random J. User <address@dom.ain></code> if the email address is included, and just <code>Random J. User</code> if the email address is not given.

====logo====

<pre>
public static string logo()
</pre>

''OPTIONAL'': It is recommend that this method is implemented for enhanced usability with wallets and clients, but interfaces and other contracts MUST NOT depend on the existence of this method.

Returns the logo URL of the DApp. This URL should refer to a PNG format image that allows the wallets and clients to display the logo of the DApp.

====website====

<pre>
public static string website()
</pre>

''OPTIONAL'': It is recommend that this method is implemented for enhanced usability with wallets and clients, but interfaces and other contracts MUST NOT depend on the existence of this method.

Returns the website URL of the DApp.

===Methods from NEP-10===

====supportedStandards====

<pre>
public static string[] supportedStandards()
</pre>

Returns an array of string values. Each string value is a code for an NEP (or other standard) supported by the smart contract.

You can view the specific description in [[nep-10.mediawiki|NEP-10]].

==Rationale==

==Backwards Compatibility==

==Test Cases==

==Implementation==
