<pre>
  NEP: TBD
  Title: NeoFS block storage format
  Author: Ekaterina Pavlova <ekt@nspcc.ru>
  Type: Informational
  Status: Draft
  Created: 2025-04-07
</pre>

==Abstract==

This proposal outlines the methodology and specifications for storing Neo blockchain blocks within
the NeoFS container.

==Motivation==

Neo node synchronization via P2P requires all block headers (~700 bytes each, over 1 GB per year with
15-second blocks) to remain available, limiting scalability as chains grow. Storing blocks in NeoFS
provides a distributed alternative, reducing local storage, enabling on-demand fetches, and speeding
up sync with snapshots or checkpoints. This proposal defines a NeoFS storage schema, building on
experiments (e.g., nspcc-dev/neo-go#3496) and future enhancements (#1526).

==Specification==

===Block Storage Schema===
A single NeoFS container is used to store blocks. Each container
has network magic attribute (`Magic:56753`). Each block is stored in a binary
form as a separate object with a unique OID and a set of attributes:
 - block object identifier with block index value (`Block:1`)
 - primary node index (`Primary:0`)
 - block hash in the LE form (`Hash:5412a781caf278c0736556c0e544c7cfdbb6e3c62ae221ef53646be89364566b`)
 - previous block hash in the LE form (`PrevHash:3654a054d82a8178c7dfacecc2c57282e23468a42ee407f14506368afe22d929`)
 - millisecond-precision block creation timestamp (`BlockTime:1627894840919`)
 - second-precision block uploading timestamp (`Timestamp:1627894840`)

These attributes are stored as NeoFS object metadata alongside the binary block data.
Multibyte data items are always stored in little-endian order, where the low bytes come first.
Its structure is described further below.

<pre>
block_binary
{
  var-byte header;             // Fixed-size header including witnesses
  var-byte txcount;            // Transaction count
  var-byte transactions[];     // Array of serialized transactions
}
</pre>

== References ==
* [https://github.com/neo-project/neo/issues/3463 Neo Issue#3463]
* [https://github.com/neo-project/neo/issues/2373 Neo Issue#2373]
* [https://github.com/neo-project/neo/issues/1526 Neo Issue#1526]
* [https://github.com/nspcc-dev/neo-go/issues/3496 NeoGo Issue#3496]
* [https://github.com/nspcc-dev/neofs-api/issues/285 NeoFS API Issue#285]


== Implementation ==
* Go: https://github.com/nspcc-dev/neo-go/blob/61992405983ddfb5547ae3afab75c22186dc966f/cli/util/uploader.go
