<pre>
  NEP: 7
  Title: URI Scheme
  Author: Andrei <terentiev.andrei@gmail.com>, Apisit <apisit.toompakdee@gmail.com>
  Type: Standard
  Status: Draft
  Created: <date created on, in ISO 8601 (yyyy-mm-dd) format>
</pre>

==Abstract==

This NEP describes a URI standard for transfer of NEO native assets, as well as smart contracts deployed on chain.  

==Motivation==

Currently, there is no standard URI for NEO clients to consume. Bitcoin implements a URI standard so that clicking links or scanning QR codes can easily implement a bitcoin payment. Similarly the transfer of native assets on the NEO chain should be just as simple.

However since NEO also implements NEP-5 tokens, as well as generic smart contracts. Transfer of NEP-5 tokens should be equally easy to perform. Lastly, generic smart contracts should be able to be invoked on scanning of QR or clicking of a link. This allows wallet developers to consume the URI in an easy way

==Specification==

===Native Asset Transfer===

A Native asset transfer would have the following URI. It describes the reciever address, assetID, and additional attributes that will be sent with the transaction. The attributes are presented in raw hex data.

```NEO:<address>[?assetID=<assetID>][?attributes=<key=value>][?amount=<amount>]```

==== Available transaction attribute keys====
{| class="wikitable"
! Value
! Name
! Description
|-
| 0x00
| ContractHash
| Hash value of contract 
|-
| 0x02-0x03
|	ECDH02-ECDH03
|	Public key for ECDH key exchange
|-
| 0x20 
|	Script
|	Additional validation of transactions
|-
| 0x30
|	Vote
| For voting
|-
| 0x80
| CertUrl 
|	Url address of certificate 
|-
| 0x81
| DescriptionUrl
|	Url address of description 
|-
| 0x90
| Description
| Brief description 
|-
| 0xa1-0xaf 
|	Hash1-Hash15
|	Used to store custom hash values
|-
| 0xf0-0xff
|	Remark-Remark15
|	Remarks
|}

====Native Assets====  
{| class="wikitable"
! Name
! Hash
|-
| NEO 
| c56f33fc6ecfcd0c225c4ab356fee59390af8560be0e930faebe74a6daff7c9b 
|-
| GAS 
| 602c79718b16e442de58778e148d0b1084e3b2dffd5de6b7b16cee7969282de7 
|}

====Examples====

Begin transaction to specified address

'''NEO:AeNkbJdiMx49kBStQdDih7BzfDwyTNVRfb'''


Begin transaction of unspecified amount of NEO

'''NEO:AeNkbJdiMx49kBStQdDih7BzfDwyTNVRfb?assetID=c56f33fc6ecfcd0c225c4ab356fee59390af8560be0e930faebe74a6daff7c9b'''

Begin transaction to specified address of 1 NEO

'''NEO:AeNkbJdiMx49kBStQdDih7BzfDwyTNVRfb?assetID=c56f33fc6ecfcd0c225c4ab356fee59390af8560be0e930faebe74a6daff7c9b&amount=1.0'''

Begin transaction to specified address of 1 NEO with transaction attribute Remark = "Hello"

'''NEO:AeNkbJdiMx49kBStQdDih7BzfDwyTNVRfb?assetID= c56f33fc6ecfcd0c225c4ab356fee59390af8560be0e930faebe74a6daff7c9b&amount=1.0&attributes=0xf0=9048656c6c6f'''

This should be sufficient to facilitate transfer of native NEO assets safely.

===Unsecured Contract URI===
```NEO:<address>[?data]```


==Rationale==

The URI needs to consider both ease of use for users and wallet developers as well as security implications, especially in the case of executing arbitrary smart contracts. We can make much easier security guarantees with URI's related to transfer native assets as opposed to smart contract invocation. For this reason we will split up the URI's related to smart contract invocation, into two categories. Secure URI and Unsecure URI.



==Rationale==

The rationale fleshes out the specification by describing what motivated the design and why particular design decisions were made. It should describe alternate designs that were considered and related work, e.g. how the feature is supported in other languages.

The rationale may also provide evidence of consensus within the community, and should discuss important objections or concerns raised during discussion.

==Backwards Compatibility==

All NEPs that introduce backwards incompatibilities must include a section describing these incompatibilities and their severity. The NEP must explain how the author proposes to deal with these incompatibilities. NEP submissions without a sufficient backwards compatibility treatise may be rejected outright.

==Test Cases==

Test cases for an implementation are mandatory for NEPs that are affecting consensus changes. Other NEPs can choose to include links to test cases if applicable.

==Implementation==

The implementations must be completed before any NEP is given status "Final", but it need not be completed before the NEP is accepted. It is better to finish the specification and rationale first and reach consensus on it before writing code.
