<pre>
  NEP: XYZ
  Title: Solid State Transfers
  Author: Igor Machado Coelho <igormachado@gmail.com>, Vitor Nazário Coelho <vncoelho@gmail.com>, Fernando Díaz Toledano <shargon@gmail.com>, "Who Else? Join Us!" <you@you.com>
  Type: Standard
  Status: Draft
  Created: 2019-07-18
  Requires: NEP-5
</pre>

==Abstract==

This document describes the Solid State Transfers (SST) standard, which is a Verification Script
capable of providing public assertions regarding user assets, including minimum and precise balance.
This allows for wallets and explorers to implement extra asset security mechanisms in a straightforward manner.

==Motivation==

The Witness system of Neo Blockchain allows up-front verification of user claims, in the format of a Verification Script.
Typically, this is used to provide authentication for NEP-5 contracts, including authorization for NEP-5 asset transfers.
We propose to attach extra Witnesses named Solid State Transfers adding extra claims about the user, 
such as precise balance and minimum balance at the moment transaction is put in a block.
This allows, explorers and wallets to easily verify correctness of balance at any moment in time, regardless of any other
storage verification technology. 

The main motivation for this standard is to allow extra security checks during blockchain verification phase, simplifing the development
and tests of diverse Neo clients in different programming languages.
This is complementary to any other proposed state verification technology, and it is valid for both Neo2 and Neo3 protocols.

We propose two SST modes, called Strict and Flexible.
On practice, this means saying:

* I'm going to transfer you X units of this token, and *I EXACTLY have Y units of this token* (strict)
* I'm going to transfer you X units of this token, and *I have AT LEAST Y units of this token* (flexible)

==Specification==

Recall that NEP-5 asset transfers are performed by operation "transfer":

<pre>
public static bool transfer(byte[] from, byte[] to, BigInteger amount)
</pre>

Also recall that user balance is obtained by operation "balanceOf":

<pre>
public static BigInteger balanceOf(byte[] account)
</pre>

We propose two balance verification modes:
* strict mode: witness is only valid if user has *exactly* the informed balance (before asset transfer)
* flexible mode: witness is valid if user has *at least* the informed balance (before asset transfer)

Strict Mode can be implemented as the following Verification Script (with empty Invocation part):

<code>
PUSH_VALUE exact_balance_amount

execute operation "balanceOf"

EQUALS

ASSERT
</code>

Flexible Mode can be implemented as the following Verification Script (with empty Invocation part):

<code>
PUSH_VALUE minimum_balance_amount

execute operation "balanceOf"

GEQ

ASSERT
</code>

When limited to *two parallel operations*, 'minimum_balance_amount' can be calculated as:

<code>
current_balance - maximum of all parallel output transfer values
</code>

On general, it can be safely calculated as:

<code>
current_balance - sum of all parallel output transfer values
</code>

Some notes:

Popular user wallets are *strongly recommended* to adopt Strict Mode, since this prevents poorly implemented nodes
from returning wrong values on user balance. Note that: if Strict Mode is adopted, user transaction will **only be executed
if consensus nodes agree on the precise asset amount at that specific time**.
Also note that Strict Mode **strongly forbids** parallel operations on a specific account, since network will reject the second
transaction as soon as balance has changed (thus requiring operations to be performed one at a time).

Flexible Mode can be adopted on other scenarios where parallel operations are required, since only minimum balance is required
at the moment of the operation. However, if massive operations are performed on the same account, including situations where balance
may be drastically reduced or increased in short periods of time, it is recommended to **NOT ADOPT** this standard.

Note that any user **is still able to protect its assets**, by simply transfering assets to itself.

==Rationale==

The Strict Mode is able to provide *permanent evidence* that some user posesses a certain amount of NEP-5 tokens, in that moment of time.
Since Verification Scripts have this purpose, and no Verification is allowed to fail in the blockchain, this can be considered a very secure
approach of recording one's balance history in time.

The same reasoning is valid for Flexible Mode, although one may still not know (in a direct manner) the precise assets in account (only minimum value).
It is important to mention that this standard only helps users to **directly know** the information, without requiring any other complete blockchain processing
method (that typically takes longer to validate).

We believe that the cost of adding extra bytes as witnesses will not cause any harm to the blockchain, and on the contrary, will give so many other benefits 
to both Neo users and software developers, increasing accountability and testing power.

This NEP can also be extended for other kinds of tokens/assets, such as NFTs.

==Backwards Compatibility==

This NEP is compatible with any other existing NEP, and can be easily implemented in both Neo2 and Neo3 protocols.

==Test Cases==

Examples for Strict Mode:

* In wallet, load user account balance with 100 tokens
* Perform transfer of 60 tokens and include SST requiring equality to "100"
* Verification Script should return True

* In wallet, load user account balance with 100 tokens
* Perform transfer of 60 tokens and include SST requiring equality to "0"
* Verification Script should return False

Examples for Flexible Mode:

* In wallet, load user account balance with 100 tokens
* Simulataneously, perform transfer of 35 tokens and include SST requiring greater than "60"
* Simulataneously, perform transfer of 40 tokens and include SST requiring greater than "60"
* Verification Script should return True, regardless of execution order

* In wallet, load user account balance with 100 tokens
* Perform transfer of 40 tokens and include SST requiring greater than "65"
* Perform transfer of 35 tokens and include SST requiring greater than "65"
* Verification Script should return False, if executing in this exact order, and True, otherwise


==Implementation==

Ongoing implementation on Neo: https://github.com/neo-project/neo/pull/2013