<pre>
  NEP: <to be assigned>
  Title: No vote, No claim
  Author: Malcolm Lerider
  Type: Standard
  Status: Draft
  Created: 2017-11-02
</pre>

==Abstract==

This NEP suggests that gas claims should be rejected unless the address has voted for consensus votes.

==Motivation==

Low voting participation can be a security issue, allowing minority owners to gain unreasonable high control over the network. There must be an incentive to vote for nominees.

==Specification==

GAS generation shall remain as is.

At GAS claim, a check should be implemented to see if the claim address has voted for consensus nodes. If not, the GAS claim is rejected.

An address only has to vote once. For following gas claims, the first vote is still valid.

NEO in an address which has not voted will still receive GAS as usual, but it will stay as unavailable GAS. The claim to turn unavailable GAS into available GAS will only pass if the address has voted for consensus nodes.

==Rationale==

Voting should be encouraged but not enforced. It will require certain steps that a new user will need some time to figure out. Moreover, there will be passive NEO holders who does not keep themselves updated on all protocol changes. An incentive to vote without affecting these mentioned parties is needed.

Alternative solution is to only allow NEO holders to receive GAS after voting. This would be an enforcement of voting and thus not optimal. Firstly, it would affect the parties mentioned above negatively. Secondly, NEO holders may not be satisfied with the nominees and should have the option to abstain vote.

==Backwards Compatibility==


==Test Cases==


==Implementation==

