<pre>
  NEP: <to be assigned>
  Title: Free transactions
  Author: Ethan Fast, ... Malcolm Lerider
  Type: Standard
  Status: Draft
  Created: 2017-09-29
</pre>

==Abstract==

NEO is being built for mass adoption to create a true smart economy. The pillars of a smart economy are Digital Assets, Smart Contracts, and Digital Identity.  

The majority of blockchain platforms that provide Smart Contract functionality rely on transaction fee to ensure the integrity of the network. One important function of these fees is to prevent DDoS attacks. However, given NEO’s vision of mass adoption, this transaction fee is an obstacle for the end user. The end user should not have to acquire a specific digital token for every single data exchange with a Smart Contract.  

This NEP proposes a solution where the end user only need to hold 1 NEO in his or her address to be able to send free transactions.  


==Motivation==

Currently, Neo provides free transactions and a free initial 10 GAS for Smart Contracts, which more easily allows a seamless experience for the end user and mass adoption of NEO. However, this opens up the potential for abuse through DDoS attacks. The easiest way to prevent such situations is to introduce a transaction fee. However, introducing a transaction fee will be negative for user experience: Neo are not divisible, so the fee must be in Gas, and the user would then need to acquire Gas tokens for every data exchange with a Smart Contract. This would be easy to do if the user is holding 1 Neo, as the user could preform a Claim Transaction to aquire Gas. But the common end user should not be expected to have knowledge to do this. And further, the requirement to claim Gas before sending Neo would create an extra obstacle in automation of transfers.  

==Specification==

Set transaction fee to 8 (satoshi).  

1) If transaction includes Neo it should function as a claim transaction:

In addition to current behavior, each transaction should also function as a claim transaction. Concretely, this means that each transaction should also include a Gas amount to be returned to the sender (under existing claim transaction logic, minus the transaction fee) in a transaction's `vout` field.   

The transaction fee should be subtracted from the calculated Gas claim.  

2)  
If the transaction is a Gas only transaction simply charge 8 satoshi.  

3)  
Contract execution is still 10 GAS free.  


==Rationale==

By applying this suggested solution, an address only need to hold 1 NEO in order to send transactions. From user perspective, the transaction will be experienced as free of charge.  

This solution also allows the Neo network to easily throttle transactions if ever needed. If the volume of transactions ever becomes a problem, then the transaction fee can be increased with one of the following consequences:  

1. User will be able to send transactions less often.  

2. User will need more NEO in the address to keep sending the same volume of transactions.  


==Backwards Compatibility==


==Test Cases==


==Implementation==

