<pre>
  NEP: <to be assigned>
  Title: Neo JSON-RPC error handling and codes
  Author: Anna Shaleva <shaleva.ann@nspcc.ru>, Roman Khimov <roman@nspcc.ru>
  Type: Informational
  Status: Draft
  Created: 2022-09-12
</pre>

==Abstract==

This proposal describes some Neo-specific JSON-RPC interaction requirements
along with a set of Neo-specific error codes to be used by compliant
implementations. It allows different Neo nodes with different RPC server
implementations to be compatible and able to interact with various RPC
clients.

==Motivation==

Currently different implementations of RPC servers in Neo nodes use slightly
different set of error codes and clients can't rely on codes to distinguish
one errors from another. Some errors were also changed on update from Legacy
to N3. The overall set is also too coarse to be used effectively by clients,
many different problems requiring different client actions end up with the
same code, so clients have to parse error messages to react correctly which is
far less reliable than using codes. At the same time JSON-RPC is too
permissive in some of its definitions, while Neo can benefit from stricter
definitions used.

A standard set of errors and JSON-RPC conventions solve these problems by
providing common language both for servers and clients. Servers can have a
reference on what code should be used for what purpose and what data types
should be used, while clients can easily check for error codes and react
accordingly.

==Specification==

===General JSON-RPC conventions===

JSON-RPC 2.0 specification for the <code>Error</code> object is augmented with
the following compatible clauses:

* <code>code</code> field MUST be a negative integer value ranging from -1 to -65536 that is reserved for a particular error by the specification. <code>code</code> field MUST be the same for each Neo node irrespective of the implementation details except for the reserved experimental implementation-defined range. <code>code</code> field MUST NOT be omitted. 
* <code>message</code> field MUST be a valid UTF-8 string value that specifies a short error description. <code>message</code> value MAY NOT be exactly the same across all Neo node implementations (we have <code>code</code> for this). <code>message</code> value SHOULD be limited to a concise single sentence. <code>message</code> field MUST NOT be omitted. <code>message</code> field SHOULD start with a capital letter and SHOULD NOT end with a dot.
* <code>data</code> field MUST be a valid UTF-8 string value that contains any implementation-dependent textual data (including debug traces). <code>data</code> field MAY be omitted, however it’s RECOMMENDED for servers to return it. <code>data</code> value SHOULD contain additional information about error and be aimed to clarify the error reason. <code>data</code> value MAY NOT be exactly the same across Neo node implementations.

===Error codes===

Compliant server implementations can use error codes defined by JSON-RPC
specification (from -32700 to -32600) for any calls when they're
appropriate. The most often used one is -32602 "Invalid params", it SHOULD be
used only when call parameters are syntactically incorrect and servers
SHOULD give additional data like offending parameter number and why it's wrong
in the <code>data</code> response field.

If several codes can be used in some situations implementations SHOULD pick
the most specific one.

====Groups====

Error codes are grouped. Each call can use any appropriate group and code as
long as they fit the purpose.

{|
|+ Error code ranges
|-
! Range           !! Usage
|-
| -15000...-10000 || Experimental implementation-defined range.
|-
| -699...-600     || Configuration and service errors.
|-
| -599...-500     || Inventory verification errors.
|-
| -399...-300     || Wallet-related errors.
|-
| -199...-100     || Missing/unknown items/inventories/states.
|}

Experimental codes can be used by node implementations if they're documented,
however clients can't rely on the meaning of these codes if the version of the
node changes or if they connect to a different node implementation. New
proposals can set new ranges or specific codes as long as they don't conflict
with this specification. All the remaining error codes (not listed in this
specification or JSON-RPC 2.0)  are reserved for future use and MUST NOT be
used by compliant implementations.

====Missing items====

{|
|+ Codes for missing items
|-
! Code !! Message            !! Meaning
|-
| -101 || Unknown block      || Call that accepts as a parameter or searches for a header or a block as a part of its job can't find it.
|-
| -102 || Unknown contract   || Call that accepts as a parameter or searches for a contract as a part of its job can't find it.
|-
| -103 || Unknown transaction|| Call that accepts as a parameter or searches for a transaction as a part of its job can't find it.
|-
| -104 || Unknown storage item|| Call that looks for an item in the storage as part of its job can't find it.
|-
| -105 || Unknown script container|| Call that accepts as a parameter or searches for a script container (a block or transaction) as a part of its job can't find it (this error generalizes -101 and -103 in cases where it's needed).
|-
| -106 || Unknown state root || Call that accepts as a parameter or searches for a state root as a part of its job can't find it.
|-
| -107 || Unknown session    || Call that accepts as a parameter or searches for a session as a part of its job can't find it.
|-
| -108 || Unknown iterator   || Call that accepts as a parameter or searches for a session iterator as a part of its job can't find it.
|-
| -109 || Unknown height     || Block or header height passed as parameter or calculated during call execution is not correct (out of the range known to the node).
|}


====Wallet-related problems====

{|
|+ Codes for calls that use a wallet
|-
! Code !! Message            !! Meaning
|-
| -300 || Insufficient funds || Transaction that sends some assets can't be created because it fails.
|-
| -301 || Fee limit exceeded || Transaction requires more network fee to be paid than is allowed by settings.
|-
| -302 || No opened wallet   || Server doesn't have any opened wallet to operate with.
|-
| -303 || Wallet not found   || Specified (or configured) wallet file path is invalid.
|-
| -304 || Wallet not supported|| Specified (or configured) file can't be opened as a wallet.
|}

====Verification errors====

{|
|+ Inventory verification or verification script errors
|-
! Code !! Message            !! Meaning
|-
| -500 || Unclassified verification error|| Anything that can't be expressed by other codes.
|-
| -501 || Inventory already exists on chain|| Block or transaction is already accepted and processed.
|-
| -502 || Memory pool is full|| No more transactions can be accepted into the memory pool (unless they have a priority) as its full capacity is reached.
|-
| -503 || Transaction already exists in the pool|| Transaction is already pooled, but not yet accepted into a block.
|-
| -504 || Insufficient network fee|| Transaction has incorrect (too small per Policy setting) network fee value.
|-
| -505 || Policy check failed|| Denied by the Policy contract (one of signers is blocked).
|-
| -506 || Invalid script     || Transaction contains incorrect executable script.
|-
| -507 || Invalid attribute  || Transaction contains an invalid attribute.
|-
| -508 || Invalid signature  || One of the verification scripts failed.
|-
| -509 || Invalid size       || Transaction or its script is too big.
|-
| -510 || Expired            || Transaction's ValidUntilBlock value is already in the past.
|-
| -511 || Insufficient funds || Sender doesn't have enough GAS to pay for all currently pooled transactions.
|-
| -512 || Invalid verification function|| Contract doesn't have a <code>verify</code> method or this method doesn't return proper value.
|}

====Service and node configuration====

{|
|+ Errors related to node configuration and various services
|-
! Code !! Message            !! Meaning
|-
| -601 || Sessions disabled  || Session support is not enabled on the server.
|-
| -602 || Oracle service is not running|| Service is not enabled in the configuration.
|-
| -603 || Oracle request already finished|| The oracle request submitted is already completely processed.
|-
| -604 || Oracle request not found  || The oracle request submitted is not known to this node.
|-
| -605 || Not a designated oracle node|| Oracle service is enabled, but this node is not designated to provide this functionality.
|-
| -606 || Old state requests are not supported|| This node can't answer  requests for old state because it's configured to keep only the latest one.
|-
| -607 || Invalid proof      || State proof verification failed.
|-
| -608 || Execution failed   || Call made a VM execution, but it has failed.
|}

===Applicability to current calls===

This table is informative, compliant implementations MAY use other codes
specified above that fit the purpose as well if they're documented. Only
Neo-specific codes are documented here, generic JSON-RPC errors like -32602 or
-32603 can be used by any of these methods.

{|
|+ Error codes returned from specific calls
|-
! Method              !! Codes
|-
| calculatenetworkfee || -508, -512
|-
| closewallet         || 
|-
| dumpprivkey         || -302
|-
| findstates          || -102, -606
|-
| getapplicationlog   || -105
|-
| getblock            || -101, -109
|-
| getblockhash        || -109
|-
| getblockheader      || -101, -109
|-
| getcandidates       ||
|-
| getcommittee        ||
|-
| getconnectioncount  ||
|-
| getcontractstate    || -102
|-
| getnativecontracts  ||
|-
| getnep11balances    ||
|-
| getnep11properties  || -608
|-
| getnep11transfers   ||
|-
| getnep17balances    ||
|-
| getnep17transfers   ||		
|-
| getnewaddress       || -302
|-
| getnextblockvalidators||
|-
| getpeers 	      ||
|-
| getproof            || -102, -104, -606
|-
| getrawmempool       || 			
|-
| getrawtransaction   || -103
|-
| getstate            || -102, -606
|-
| getstateheight      ||
|-
| getstateroot        || -106
|-
| getstorage          || -102, -104
|-
| gettransactionheight|| -103
|-
| getunclaimedgas     ||
|-
| getversion          ||
|-
| getwalletbalance    || -302
|-
| getwalletunclaimedgas|| -302
|-
| invokecontractverify|| -102, -512
|-
| invokefunction      ||
|-
| invokescript        ||
|-
| importprivkey       || -302
|-
| listaddress         || -302
|-
| listplugins 	      ||
|-
| openwallet          || -302, -303, -304
|-
| sendfrom            || -300, -301, -302
|-
| sendmany            || -300, -301, -302
|-
| sendtoaddress       || -300, -301, -302
|-
| sendrawtransaction  || -500, -501, -502, -503, -504, -505, -506, -507, -508, -509, -510, -511
|-
| submitblock         || -500, -501, -508, -509
|-
| submitoracleresponse|| -602, -603, -604, -605
|-
| terminatesession    || -107, -601
|-
| traverseiterator    || -107, -108, -601
|-
| validateaddress     ||
|-
| verifyproof         || -607
|}


==Rationale==

A large set of codes and behavior nuances is directly inhereted from current
implementations. New ones are added where clients need more details to
properly interpret server response. The most important changes are in the
verification group, specific errors allow clients to adjust the behavior
accordingly: fail, retry or wait.

==Backwards Compatibility==

* -100 code is gone completely, it's returned for a very wide variety of different problems at the moment, so the code itself shouldn't matter much
* -101 and -102 errors change their meaning, they're only used in <code>invokecontractverify</code> call which is not very popular
* -300 and -301 wallet-related errors are completely compatible
* -400 error is now -302 which may affect some applications
* -500 error has the same meaning and is compatible
* new codes can affect client applications that expect only old ones

==References==

* [https://www.jsonrpc.org/specification JSON-RPC 2.0 Specification]

==Implementation==

<TBD>
