<pre>
  NEP: LATEST
  Title: Token Extension: Third Party Transfers
  Author: Tyler Adams <lllwvlvwlll@gmail.com>, luodanwg <luodan.wg@gmail.com>, tanyuan <tanyuan666@gmail.com>, Alan Fong <anfn@umich.edu>, Michael Herman (mwherman@parallelspace.net)
  Type: Standard
  Status: Draft
  Created: 2018-07-21
</pre>

==Abstract==

The NEP-LATEST proposal defines three (3) additional methods designed to extend the base level token
functionality found in NEP-5 to support the third-party transfer requirements of third-party agents 
such as exchanges.  

Specialized exchanges and other applications may require additional or different functionality.  They will need to create and submit additional NEP proposals that
support their needs.

==Motivation==

Blockchain exchanges require token smart contracts to implement additional methods to support
the permissioned transfer of value from an originator to a receiver. NEP-LATEST provides definitions
for these functions. 

==Specification==

In the method definitions below, we provide both the definitions of the functions as they are defined in the contract as well as the invoke parameters.

All methods are required to be implemented to be compliant with this standard.

NEP-LATEST is designed to be used in composition with NEP-5 and NEP-10.

===Methods===

====allowance====

<pre>
public static BigInteger allowance(byte[] from, byte[] to)
</pre>

* Remarks: "allowance" will return the amount of tokens that the '''to''' account can transfer from the '''from''' acount.

====transferFrom====

<pre>
public static bool transferFrom(byte[] originator, byte[] from, byte[] to, BigInteger amount)
</pre>

* Remarks: "transferFrom" will transfer an '''amount''' from the '''from''' account to the '''to''' acount if the '''originator''' has been approved to transfer the requested '''amount'''.

====approve====

<pre>
public static bool approve(byte[] originator, byte[] to, BigInteger amount)
</pre>

* Remarks: "approve" will approve the '''to''' account to transfer '''amount''' tokens from the '''originator''' acount. 

===Events===

None

===NEP-10 Compliance===

NEP-LATEST compliant smart contracts are required to implement the <code>supportStandards</code> method using
a pattern that is compatible with this example: https://github.com/neo-project/proposals/pull/60#issuecomment-407439745

==Implementation==

* TODO - Need an example that is compliant with <code>["NEP-5", "NEP-10", "NEP-LATEST"]</code>.
