<pre>
  NEP: <to be assigned>
  Title: No vote, No System Fees
  Author: Malcolm Lerider
  Type: Standard
  Status: Draft
  Created: 2017-11-02
</pre>

==Abstract==

This NEP suggests an encouragement for NEO holders to vote for consensus nodes. 

GAS distribution is divided into two parts: 1. Generation of new GAS by NEO tokens and 2. Recycled system fees. In the current implementation, NEO holders will automatically receive both these distributions as unclaimed GAS. This NEP suggests that only generation of new GAS should be automatically distributed to NEO. To be eligible to receive recycled system fees, the address holding the NEO must have voted for consensus nodes. How the address has voted does not affect how much of the recycled system fees they get; it is distributed proportionally to all NEO that are held in an address that has voted.

==Motivation==

Low voting participation can be a security issue, allowing minority owners to gain unreasonable high control over the network. There must be an incentive to vote for nominees.

==Specification==

GAS generation shall remain as is.

An address only has to vote once. A vote is valid from the first time voted until the address vote for other consensus nodes.

NEO in an address which has not voted will still receive newly generated GAS as usual. An address will start receive recycled system fees in the block after it has voted.

==Rationale==

Voting should be encouraged but not enforced. It will require certain steps that a new user will need some time to figure out. Moreover, there will be passive NEO holders who do not keep themselves updated on all protocol changes. An incentive to vote without affecting these mentioned parties is needed.

==Backwards Compatibility==


==Test Cases==


==Implementation==

