<pre>
  NEP: 22
  Title: Contract Basic Methods Guideline
  Author: Owen Zhang <zhangzhihong@ngd.neo.org>, Fernando Díaz Toledano <shargon@gmail.com>, Erik Zhang <erik@neo.org>
  Type: Informational
  Status: Accepted
  Created: 2021-04-19
</pre>

==Abstract==

This proposal outlines a basic method guideline for the NEO blockchain that will provide systems with a generalized interaction mechanism for smart contract initial deploy, update, verify and destroy.

==Motivation==

As the NEO blockchain scales, Smart Contract Initial Deploy, Update and Destroy will become increasingly important.  Without guideline for <code>update</code> and <code>destroy</code> method, systems will be required to maintain a unique API for each contract, regardless of their similarity to other contracts which makes application development very inconvenient. This guideline can lead most contracts to implement the same basic methods with the same types of parameters but still accept diversity.

==Specification==

In the method definitions below, we provide both the definitions of the functions as they are defined in the contract as well as the invoke parameters.

===Methods===

====_initialize====

It's an internal function which will be compiled into Abi file if any function is using initialize statement. These functions which have initialize statement will be executed first when loading contract. The format should be [InitialValue(Value, ContractParameterType)], here's an example.

<pre>
[InitialValue("NdUL5oDPD159KeFpD5A9zw5xNF1xLX6nLT", ContractParameterType.Hash160)]
private static readonly UInt160 owner = default;
</pre>

The <code>owner</code> here will be initialized as <code>"NdUL5oDPD159KeFpD5A9zw5xNF1xLX6nLT"</code> everytime when the contract be executed.

====_deploy====

<pre>
{
  "name": "_deploy",
  "safe": false,
  "parameters": [
    {
      "name": "data",
      "type": "Any"
    },
    {
      "name": "update",
      "type": "Boolean"
    }
  ],
  "returntype": "Void"
}
</pre>

This is an optional function which will be automatically executed by ContractManagement contract when a contract is first deployed or updated.

The parameter <code>data</code> can be any type of supported parameters for contract-specific purpose. It's the same <code>data</code> that is accepted by Deploy() and Update() in ContractManagement contract.

<code>update</code> is true when contract is updated via <code>update()</code> and it's false on initial deployment via <code>_deploy()</code>.

====verify====

<pre>
{
  "name": "verify",
  "safe": false,
  "parameters": [],
  "returntype": "bool"
}
</pre>

If this contract has scenario that its address will be included in the transaction signatures, it MUST apply this. A typical scenario is withdraw tokens from a smart contract. The first Verify method in that contract's manifest abi will be triggered as a VerificationTrigger to verify if the signature is correct. Here's an example:

<code>public static bool Verify() => Runtime.CheckWitness(Owner);</code>

This method needs to be called when withdrawing token from the contract. 

Verify method can have multi parameters as well.

====update====

<pre>
{
  "name": "update",
  "safe": false,
  "parameters": [
    {
      "name": "nefFile",
      "type": "ByteArray"
    },
    {
      "name": "manifest",
      "type": "ByteArray"
    },
    {
      "name": "data",
      "type": "Any"
    }
  ],
  "returntype": "Void"
}
</pre>

Updating a smart contract MUST have <code>nefFile</code> or <code>manifest.json</code> or <code>both</code>. It will be passed to <code>_deploy</code>.

The parameter <code>data</code> can be any type of supported parameters for contract-specific purpose.

The function SHOULD check whether the <code>signer</code> address equals the <code>owner</code> hash of contract. The function SHOULD use the SYSCALL <code>Neo.Runtime.CheckWitness</code> to verify the <code>signer</code>.

====destroy====

<pre>
{
  "name": "destroy",
  "safe": false,
  "parameters": [],
  "returntype": "Void"
}
</pre>
This function can delete all the storage of this contract.

The function SHOULD check whether the <code>signer</code> address equals the <code>owner</code> hash of contract. The function SHOULD use the SYSCALL <code>Neo.Runtime.CheckWitness</code> to verify the <code>signer</code>.
This <code>owner</code> means the <code>20-byte address</code> which has authority to update, deploy this contract or do any customized operation.

If any token is in this contract asset, they MUST be transferred to another address before <code>destroy</code>.
