<pre>
  NEP: <to be assigned>
  Title: URI Scheme
  Author: Andrei <terentiev.andrei@gmail.com>, Apisit <apisit.toompakdee@gmail.com>
  Type: Standard
  Status: Draft
  Created: 2018-01-15
</pre>

==Abstract==

This NEP describes a URI standard for transfer of NEO native assets.  

==Motivation==

Currently, there is no standard URI for NEO clients to consume. Bitcoin implements a URI standard so that clicking links or scanning QR codes can easily implement a bitcoin payment. Similarly the transfer of native assets on the NEO chain should be just as simple.

In the future this URI scheme should enable generic smart contract invocation. This would allow for transfer of NEP-5 tokens, but these extensions should be added on once the more basic URI standards are agreed upon

==Specification==

===Native Asset Transfer URI===

A Native asset transfer would have the following URI. It describes the reciever address, assetID, and additional attributes that will be sent with the transaction. The attributes are presented in raw hex data.

<code>NEO:<address>[?assetID=<assetID>][?amount=<amount>][?attributes=<key>=<value>]</code>

==== Available transaction attribute keys====
{| class="wikitable"
! Value
! Name
! Description
|-
| 0x00
| ContractHash
| Hash value of contract 
|-
| 0x02-0x03
|	ECDH02-ECDH03
|	Public key for ECDH key exchange
|-
| 0x20 
|	Script
|	Additional validation of transactions
|-
| 0x30
|	Vote
| For voting
|-
| 0x80
| CertUrl 
|	Url address of certificate 
|-
| 0x81
| DescriptionUrl
|	Url address of description 
|-
| 0x90
| Description
| Brief description 
|-
| 0xa1-0xaf 
|	Hash1-Hash15
|	Used to store custom hash values
|-
| 0xf0-0xff
|	Remark-Remark15
|	Remarks
|}

====Native Assets====  
{| class="wikitable"
! Name
! Hash
|-
| NEO 
| c56f33fc6ecfcd0c225c4ab356fee59390af8560be0e930faebe74a6daff7c9b 
|-
| GAS 
| 602c79718b16e442de58778e148d0b1084e3b2dffd5de6b7b16cee7969282de7 
|}

====Examples====

Begin transaction to specified address

<code>NEO:AeNkbJdiMx49kBStQdDih7BzfDwyTNVRfb</code>


Begin transaction of unspecified amount of NEO

<code>NEO:AeNkbJdiMx49kBStQdDih7BzfDwyTNVRfb?assetID=c56f33fc6ecfcd0c225c4ab356fee59390af8560be0e930faebe74a6daff7c9b</code>

Begin transaction to specified address of 1 NEO

<code>NEO:AeNkbJdiMx49kBStQdDih7BzfDwyTNVRfb?assetID=c56f33fc6ecfcd0c225c4ab356fee59390af8560be0e930faebe74a6daff7c9b&amount=1.0</code>

Begin transaction to specified address of 1 NEO with transaction attribute Remark = "Hello"

<code>NEO:AeNkbJdiMx49kBStQdDih7BzfDwyTNVRfb?assetID= c56f33fc6ecfcd0c225c4ab356fee59390af8560be0e930faebe74a6daff7c9b&amount=1.0&attributes=0xf0=9048656c6c6f</code>

This should be sufficient to facilitate transfer of native NEO assets safely.

==Rationale==

The URI needs to consider both ease of use for users and wallet developers as well as security implications, especially in the case of executing arbitrary smart contracts. We can make much easier security guarantees with URI's related to transfer native assets as opposed to smart contract invocation. For this reason we will propose generic smart contract URI's in a subsequent NEP.

==Implementation==
Reference Implementation (GoLang)

[https://play.golang.org/p/USCC87orRMS]

==Reference==
The below discussion has many relevant talking points relevant to the security implications of smart contract URI's.

[https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/issues/67]

